So now let's dig into the details of creating our
SQL Server Kubernetes deployment.
First,
let's look at creating the load balancing service that will provide
persistent external networking for our SQL Server deployment.
The kubectl command that you see at the top shows how you can
create the service by using the apply operator and passing it a
.yaml file that contains the declarations you can see here at the
bottom portion of the screen.
The bottom portion of screen shows the contents of
the sqlloadbalancer.yaml file.
It contains the declarations that Kubernetes needs to create the service.
Here, the kind statement tells us what kind of object this is,
and here you can see this is going to be a Service.
The metadata, it gives the service a name, and here it's called mssql‑service.
This name isn't fixed, and you can use other values if you want to.
The selector identifies the name of the app that's going to use the service.
This is going to associate your pod with this load balancer.
In this case, you can see the app name is mssql.
Here again, this name is not fixed.
You can use other values.
You'll see the service name and the selector name used
again later in our pod deployment.
So they do need to match what you use here.
And while this service uses a single pod,
you should bear in mind that the load balancing
service can handle multiple pods.
It is a load balancer, after all.
The ports section that you can see at the bottom maps TCP
ports on the external load balancer to ports on the pod where
SQL Server is going to be running.
The first port value specifies the Kubernetes host port,
while the targetPort value specifies the port on the pod.
In this case, both are 1433, and 1433, that's the default port for SQL Server.
I kept them the same for simplicity, but they don't need to be the same.
In particular, the host port, the one that's identified by the word port,
it can be changed to other values.
But remember, if you do that,
you have to change your client that is connecting
into the pod to match those values.
When you deploy this, you'll get an external IP address,
and that IP address won't change, even if the SQL Server instance fails,
the pod fails or the node fails.
Now, let's take a look at creating external storage.
This slide shows the YAML that would create the
storage used by our SQL Server pod.
Here again, at the top of the slide,
you can see the kubectl command to create the storage.
Next, you can see the StorageClass,
which essentially describes the type of storage that's going to be used.
The metadata gives it a name, and here it's azure‑disk.
The storage account specifies Standard_LRS,
which is a general purpose type of storage on Azure.
If you are creating a production deployment,
you might want to use a faster, albeit more expensive premium storage.
You can run the kubectl command to list the
available storage options that you have,
and you'll see that in an upcoming demo.
The PersistentVolumeClaim, it's described on the bottom,
and it's named mssql‑data.
It points back to that Azure disk StorageClass that we just created.
You might notice the ReadWriteOnce access mode.
It indicates basically that storage can only be
accessed by one container at a time,
and you can see that the amount of storage that we allocated is 8 GB.
Now here's the slide that shows the YAML to actually
create the SQL Server deployment.
Again, at the top,
you can see that now familiar kubectl command where the
apply is used to create the deployment, passing it a .yaml file.
And if you look at the kind tag, you can see that this is a pod deployment,
so it's not a service like you saw before.
Instead, it's a deployment.
Next, you can see the replica set, and here it defines a single replica.
This is what tells Kubernetes to make sure there's
always one SQL Server pod running.
It doesn't matter if a node dies or a pod dies.
When you're using a replica set,
it will make sure there's always an instance of that pod running.
The label of mssql is the name of the SQL Server pod.
This selector tells the replica set that mssql is the
pod that's going to be replicated,
and you'll recall that the name of mssql was also associated
with that load balancer we created earlier.
You might notice at the bottom, the fsGroup: 1000.
With SQL Server 2019, Microsoft began running their containers as non‑root users.
This could result in a container not being able to
write to the persistent value.
The securityContext,
fsGroup: 1000, specifies the 1000 level security rights for
that SQL Server user in the container.
This allows the container to access those persistent volumes.
And again, this is something with SQL Server 2019 and higher.
This slide shows the second part of the SQL deployment .yaml file.
At the top, under the containers tag,
you can see the container image that's going to be used for this pod.
This container image is a Red Hat Enterprise Linux image with the
latest version of SQL Server 2019 installed.
You're not required to use that image or that version of SQL Server.
In fact, you can also install your own custom SQL Server images if you want to.
Microsoft SQL Server containers on Linux require that you supply several
environment variables in order to run the SQL Server containers.
All of these environment variables are exactly the same ones that
are either required or supported by SQL Server on Linux as if it
was running in a VM or bare metal.
MSSQL_PID is used to specify that we're using the free
SQL Server 2019 Developer edition.
ACCEPT_EULA is used to accept the license agreement.
MSSQL_SA_PASSWORD is used to set the SA password,
which is system administrator,
and this is required to initially log on and manage your SQL Server instance.
Note, this value is supplied from the Kubernetes secret named mssql‑secret.
You'll see more about setting that secret as we walk through the upcoming demo.
One thing I should be clear about is while this example is
deploying a standard SQL Server container image,
you're not limited to Microsoft images.
You can also deploy your own custom SQL Server images.
Your own images do not have the same environment variables passed to them,
and they can have other attributes as well such as customized server settings.
They can also have pre‑installed databases.
In this case,
the standard SQL Server instance will not have any databases installed.
The volumeMounts section that you can see near the end,
it maps the /var/opt/mssql directory in the container to
the external storage described by the persistent volume
claim that was previously created.
The persistent volume claim, it was named mssql‑data, if you recall.
And, you should know that /var/opt/mssql,
that's the directory that SQL Server uses on Linux for
the default database installations.
Remember, this storage, it's external from the pod.
If the SQL Server pod fails,
the new pod will reconnect to the load balancing
service with the same IP as before,
and it will also connect to the same external storage.
The external storage won't go away.
SQL Server would then run recovery for the storage and restart.
With SQL Server 2019,
it uses a feature called accelerated database recovery
that makes this recovery process faster.
I should point out that I broke this example up into three
separate .yaml files for the service, the storage,
and the deployment.
There's absolutely no requirement to do that.
I separated the different parts of the deployment to make it easier to
follow and so they were more logically separated.
If you wanted to,
you could combine all of these declarations into one big .yaml file and run a single kubectl apply command to create it all at once.